Okay, we'll run again.
Okay.
One thing, I love reading about other collectors and about the whole world.
I've always been curious as to whether, I mean, is there in fact a market for these books?
I mean... My book?
Yeah.
I sold Random House.
I'll shut this up.
Yeah, I'm very interested.
Fascinating.
Okay.
Can't wait for the book.
Am I on?
Yeah, I'm on.
All right.
I think I've covered most things.
Is there anything you feel I should know?
Not that I can think of.
I may think of some things afterwards.
Okay.
At some point, when you're set up, could I come soon?
Absolutely.
We had to gut this apartment, and we're supposedly going to get in in April, and it'll probably take me a couple of months to get the books in.
But I, of course, would love you to see it.
I don't know whether that's going to be too late for you.
I'm sorry, April?
April.
Well, we'll see.
Yeah, okay.
How far along are you?
I'm supposed to have a copy in by March of 91, but I'm going to need more time.
And they said I can have it.
They're very excited.
Are they excited?
That's great.
Well, you talk about it so well.
I've got a paperback deal.
Great.
Terrific.
I can't wait.
You grew up in Beverly Hills.
I'm going to have a chapter in California.
Really?
because it's different collecting out there.
It had been alleged, and I use that verb, that the action had moved to California.
I don't think that's the case.
Yeah, I mean, were there Huntington and Doheny and... I don't even mean that.
I mean, today.
I mean, with Hollywood money, Beverly Hills.
Have you ever been to Heritage?
Yes.
Oh, sure.
Absolutely.
And Lou tells me, I had a guy come in today.
We have to designate him I.I.
You know, we can't name him.
And he's been married for 21 years, and he gave me 21 authors, and I have to go out and fill, meaning Lou.
And when it's ready, give it to him.
Price is no object.
And I said, Lou, is that collecting?
That's not collecting.
I said, the joy.
That's like buying.
I said, I want red books, and I want blue books.
What I said to him, I said, don't you feel like an interior decorator?
And he said, do you know how much money interior decorators make in Beverly Hills?
That's probably true.
Well, but I mean, it's not book collecting.
No, it's not book collecting, exactly.
So, I intend to make... Well, I don't think he knew how devastating that was.
Well, I mean, it's becoming like art out there.
I mean, people say, I've got to have a... You've got to have...
Calder or something.
I don't care what it looks like.
It goes back to what you were saying earlier, also, that paintings are much too expensive to buy, and it's kind of something else.
But there's still, I mean, people spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on a second-rate picture by second-rate artists.
It's what I guess books were in the 20s, and books certainly are not, they just don't have that kind of glamour.
I mean, the explosion in
fine arts and, you know, values and so forth.
It seems to me that books, in a way, have not participated in that.
I mean, prices have gone up, but... Is there a vision at work in your collection?
I don't know.
That's too big a word for me.
Okay.
Good.
That's fine.
You don't see yourself going the way of Arthur Holton and losing interest in something like that?
No.
No, no, no.
I'm going to be more selective.
I'm going to be a lot more selective.
for physical and financial reasons.
And I'm going to, you know, my want list is going to be much smaller in the future.
But there's no way I'm going to stop.
That's a wonderful quote.
I can see that in type.
And I guess that kind of anticipates the next question.
Where does it end?
Does it ever end?
I think it's such an ornament in one's life.
I mean, I think it's such a pleasure.
You don't want sex to end.
You don't want to stop eating good food.
I mean, it may be a madness, but it's also very gratifying and a lot of fun.
Okay.
And the quote from the house and garden, as far as I'm concerned, you can't be too rich, too thin, have too many books.
quote still on the record, or do you want to amend that?
Well, it's a, you know, that's been used.
I mean, not the eye out of the thing about the books, but the other one is such a cliche.
There's nothing very original in that.
But there's too many books, though.
But I think in light of what you just said, you are going to be a little bit more selective.
I have to, but this became unmanageable.
Let me just take a quick look.
And it's not a high spot collection.
No, by any matter of means.
That's very, very important.
I think it's the kind of collection that would ultimately be of real value to scholars and students and so forth.
Which suggests another question.
Let's say I'm doing a thesis on Tennessee Williams.
Could I see your stuff?
Absolutely.
You don't close your stuff to scholars?
No.
That's right.
I think you ought to make that point, by the way.
Because the collector does have a responsibility, don't you think?
Right.
I agree.
Let's put a question on that.
I agree totally.
I've cooperated.
Do you think the collector has a responsibility to the role of scholars?
Absolutely.
And I think you've got to make it available.
And you do make it available.
I do, absolutely, with Williams' pension material I've made available.
So what they do is they submit a request?
Yeah, yeah.
You consider it?
That's good to know.
I mean, Folger would never let anybody see anything.
Yeah, I know, I know.
And I've lent stuff to Columbia on several occasions for exhibitions.
You did anticipate the collecting of screenplays, I guess.
Yeah, I think so.
That's probably my Hollywood background, as a matter of fact, I think.
That's an interesting area, I think.
I guess LD is into that now, too.
Well, it's just another area.
Fleming had, I forget who they belonged to originally.
apparently a big box of Faulkner material, including all the Faulkner screenplays.
And apparently never even opened the box.
And he once said to me that he had material in what I'd be interested in or anything in any of it.
And I said, God, yes.
And I bought about three screenplays.
I mean, The Big Sleep, The Have and Have Not, and I think one other.
Jeez.
And then LD bought the rest of it.
But, I mean, Fleming had no conception of what he had there.
Did he just offer it as a lot?
He offered it as a lot.
And did he put an arbitrary price on it?
I think the price for the lot was too much for him.
It was like $100,000 for the lot.
He had some idea of what he had.
Well, yeah.
I think he paid a lot for it, though, as a matter of fact.
But, I mean, I don't know.
Cheap at the price, frankly.
That's a unique material.
I think that when you have Faulkner adapting Chandler or Faulkner adapting Hemingway, I mean, talk about connections, that's a great connection.
Is it typescript or is it...?
The good ones are typescripts, yeah.
Technically, Peter Howard's pretty good, and I'll tell you, Peter Stern is good on this.
There are screenplays and there are screenplays.
There could be 2,000 of them like the apathetic proof at some point, and more and more that's happening because people realize they have value.
I guess Henry Miller, Tropical Cancer, is the first thing you've got.
That's pretty much all on the record.
I guess I think I've covered most of the stuff.
I'd like to get in touch again if that's okay.
Absolutely.
One other question.
I guess one thing you did say when you started, that there really was no competition to Mount.
There wasn't a lot.
I mean, for what I was doing, major competition.
I mean, you mentioned Jane Engelhard, but not really.
Not really, no.
Not really.
She had some American things, but it wasn't really a literary collection.
So that's very important.
I guess that weighed very heavily in your consideration, the fact that it wasn't
Lennox going against John Carter Brown.
Exactly, exactly, exactly.
And then if you were able to bring taste, which you had, a modicum of means, which you had, and... It was a big asset, there's no question about it.
I find in more recent time, I mean, in the Martin Sale, there was a Henry James piece that I didn't have.
But it's just, I mean, it's, you know, the little, whatever it is.
The Europeans, is it?
I mean, it's the little pamphlet.
Sold for big bucks, I think.
What?
I think I know the one you're talking about.
Sold for big bucks, I think.
The last time I ever saw it, you know, for said lesson, was like $600, something like that.
And I said, well, this is one of the few things I haven't got.
And I told the, Glenn Horowitz, I guess, was bidding for me, let's go to
$3,000, more up to $17,000.
I mean, whatever it is, 50 times higher than the last one.
Tarzan went for $28,000.
A kid from Texas, 22 years old.
I talked to him.
Okay, I shut off.
Is that right with you?
Absolutely.
Do you believe this is a new golden age?
Does this run?
Yeah, that's right.
It goes so slow, I can't tell sometimes.
David Redden at South Beach once said he thought this was a new golden age in book collecting, because the institutions, number one, don't have the money, number two, the tax laws have changed, and so collectors really aren't encouraged to give things, and also the value.
I mean, do you agree with that?
Well, I'm still amazed by the lack of
people with the resources and paste who wouldn't occur to them to collect books.
I mean, it has not become fashionable yet.
You have Sotheby's and Christie's promoting the hell out of it, then it probably will become more fashionable.
But I prefer it the way it is.
I mean, I keep the prices down, and, you know, when you start selling Jasper Johns prints for $150,000, it becomes really absurd.
Ed Wolfe said,
He said, look, we don't have every poor Richard's almanac here at the library company in Philadelphia.
I don't know if there's a set ever.
He said, no.
Yeah, but he's saying golden age means also the stuff is available.
He said, do you think that Hunt there, anybody can go out and buy 22 Shakespeare quartos?
Right.
It's not available.
One of the reasons I started where I started was that I really felt I could not put together a major Melville or Whitman collection or Twain collection and most of the good material.
You know, it was gone.
But by starting later, that material was still available.
You see, I'm glad I hung around.
That's a very important quote.
Yeah.
It relates to what Texas did.
Right, exactly.
In fact, the 20th century.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, it took the next text.
OK.